>> And welcome to session 602 the Encoding Process In-Depth.
And the way we are going to work this session
today is we actually have three different speakers.
The first speaker is going to be Doug
Werner who's a manager on our Apple.com team
who is known most famously for him
amazing looking movie trailers.
So he is going to talk about his process of actually
creating those HD trailers that we have up on our page.
Then we are going to hand it off to Nate Caplin and
John McClintock form the American Electric Power Company
who are going to talk about how to build-out a distributed
encoding render farm using compressors so you know going
from doing just one encode to doing a whole batch of them.
And then finally we are going to end with David
Singer who is on our QuickTime engineering team,
who's going to talk about H264 form an Apple
device perspective and how you can create content
that is compatible with Apple devices and what
we are doing to make that a little bit easier.
So with that I am going to hand it over to Doug.
>> Doug: Good afternoon and thank
you for coming and seeing us today.
What I'm going to do is literally take you through what
I am going to do to start the encoding of a movie trailer
that we are going to put up on the site probably tomorrow.
If you get to the projector, there
you go this is our new site,
this is what we have been working
on for a little while prior to WWDC.
We changed to format of the trailer site a little
bit and hopefully people will appreciate the things
that we've added including a specific section for HD and such
so that said we will get that out of the way and get this
out of the way and I've connected to my machine
actually in one of my labs at Apple, via Timbuktu,
and this is the Compressor App running and on my right
side here which you may be familiar with if you are used
to running Compressor this is your column over
here that allows you to set your custom settings
if your not using the presets that come with
the app, so I tend to roll my own as they say.
Let me close you, anyway I'll scroll down.
So what I am going to do is I'm a going to grab
a file here and the file we are going to use is
from New Line Cinema's Golden Compass which we,
like I said will be posting on the site shortly.
I brought it into the app and with my preset settings
here, I have folders already containing a set
of HD resolution files at 1080, 720 and 480p
and I'm going to bring those on to the app.
Now when I am doing encoding and after I've done a capture.
Our captures come in now mostly they come in on D5.
So I have a D5 deck, I have two RAIDS that are connected as
well as the encoding machines are connected all by fibre.
And my short hand when I am doing the encoding is
actually to try and label what it is as I am going along
so in this particular case this clip is a teaser.
My short hand for 235 is that part here six channels is
the number of channels that are in it and R is a ref movie.
In another folder I actually have the source movie which
has all eight tracks because when they come into me most
of the time they will have you know left,
right, surround, sub and all of that
and then typically it will have
two channels of dedicated stereo.
And since QuickTime has the ability to do surround sound
of course we will want to take advantage of that so I note
in the file so that I can have in captured this.
Actually last week I can quickly look at this and know
which set of settings I should jump on to it or apply to it.
So what I have done is taken this folder of HD setting,
brought them in and this is my base set of settings.
It's lagging a little bit and I am not exactly sure why
but let me flip resolutions here and speed it up a tad.
So the first thing I am looking at right off the bat
is to make sure that the crop marks are going to,
crops are going to come in the right
position and I'll go ahead and close that.
In the settings lets just take the 480p and I'll just
run through, just give you an idea of how the setting are
like out here for this specific size of movie.
It just, there we go.
I think the button on my track pad is sticking,
that's why I am getting a little bit of a delay.
So running through it, I mean often most common question
that I have always been asked is well what settings you use
and all of that so I am just showing
you for a 480p 235 trailer.
In this case what I am going to start with is a 2100
there of !course frame reordering and then in the audio
of course we are going to be using AAC 5.1 surround,
variable bit rating coding and I will typically kind of go
to the middle of the road for the smaller files and for the
larger like 1080p, kind of like your good, better, best,
I'll definitely go to the highest setting
for audio I can to support the surround.
In this case I have a very small amount of what I
would qualify as image sharpening applied for the 480.
Since you are starting with the 1080 I've noticed that it
does require a bit of sharpening and from what I worked
on this past week which I will show you here in a moment.
They use to run about a 50 on the details level but I am
actually going to change it to 20 for this particular one
and I am going to do the same to the, I
don't think the 720 has any sharpening,
I do have a slight bit of gamma correction, some
brightness and contrast not really all that much.
I mean the 264 encoder does a really good job
of pretty much getting it where you want to be
and of course the last panel here, I'm
telling you what size I want it to be and its,
2.35 is not true 16 by 9 so I am compensating for that.
And then the crops, top and bottom.
And I do try and crop in at least devisable by four, so
let me do a save and since I've shown you that process,
I'm going to hop down here to the other ones
and this will be 2.35, two channel HD5
and so this particular set has the lower resolution
size of 640, 480, and this one is going to be one
of my guinea pig files to convert for iPhone.
Then I am going to go over here and
essentially triple check to make sure
that these other guys are definitely the correct
batch, cropped correctly so I can close that.
Switch this to my cluster, I'm just going to go ahead
and take off, and it will bring up the batch monitor
and I'll switch this to this cluster server
and this tells us what we're doing.
Right off the bat you are going to see that the
four machines that I have attached my cluster,
have already started to encode these particular
files and I've got the other ones waiting.
So in theory most of these will
be done by the time I get back.
To give you a point of comparison, when I started
doing encoding back around '99 they did things
like the Star Wars trailer, it would take about I think if
memory serves it was about 12 hours to do one 480 in code
and at the time once I got my lab really going and cranking
I had eight machines all stacked in a pyramid in my office
and I would use one machine with one setting and
one machine with a slightly different setting
and would literally be using them in parallel and
then I'd take them out and be like and eye test,
okay was this one better or was this one better and
you know 12 hours at a whack you kind of wanted to try
and get it going as promptly as you can, so that was
the best hardware that I could throw at it at the time
and now to look at it now a days you can see here this
1080p version what 1920 by some odd is probably going
to take an hour, hour and ten minutes to
do, so we have definitely come a long way.
With Compressor 3 you can allow a machine to
have a virtual cluster, so I am looking forward
to literally doubling the number of
machines I have to be able to be able to take advantage
of the additional horsepower that it will provide.
So this is off and running and the setting that you saw
me change, let me just close this stuff, gets back to,
oh where did they go, let me pop to
the web here real quick and here we go.
Okay here we go.
I thought I had a couple sample files
with me but I am going to go ahead
and run down here to this guy, oops where did he go?
What I was going to do, I may have to come back to it at the
end of the Q and A session, I thought I had a couple files
with me, I was going to show you first hand the difference,
when you are encoding something and you run through it
and your looking at it and it still might look
a little bit crunchy, you think oh I might have
to apply a little more data rate to it, what you can do
is go back into that panel that I showed you previously
about the percentage slider there and make a slide
adjustment there and it makes a difference in having
it qualifies less crunchiness in that space,
so that is what I was going to show you.
And essentially that is it that is what is going to provide.
Like I said during the Q and A session I might be able
to come back and show them side by side, I'll go get them
but I wanted to give you an example of my workflow.
What I will do is, get this guy back up here, after the files
are encoded they go to another machine that is actually
in my office as opposed to the lab
and this has a setting applied to it.
I will annotate them using Apple Script by taking a set
of them for example here, whoops I'll just grab a couple
and I have specific studio scripts
that I will drag them onto
and they already have all the factors pre
loaded and I think this one is Sony Pictures.
And I would simply put in the name of the film and
what it is going to do to all of those is open them,
apply the copyright, whoops, the copyright information,
come back here, and then complete that step automatically
with having to go in and individually annotate each film.
Then I have another script that I run that
creates multiple reference movies and the purpose
of multiple reference movies for one file is once I put
them up on the server I can see if anybody is deep linking
to the file directly or if I am sharing the file with
multiple people I can have you know like dash a, dash b,
dash c and when I am doing my reporting I can run a
report and say oh well look at how many people are looking
at this file via the web as opposed to deep
linking as opposed to one I may have given
to product support or iTunes and that kind of thing.
So I actually tract using Apple Script and
multiple movies the ability to keep track
of how many iTunes people watch the
trailer as opposed to from the main website
and once I created the reference movies, all they do is
they're just pointers, there's no speed selection or anything
like that or just simple created a template file which
have the little guy on there and I will just add it,
throw it on top of this particular script
and it automatically creates all of those files and I
am ready to drag those up on to the server for tracking.
The nice thing about this in terms of Compressor 3
is it has the ability now instead of having to do
that you can annotate the source movie first
and then once you go through the compression
and all the steps it will automatically pass that
amount of information on to the other movies.
So I'm really happy about that, the other
thing that is new in Compressor is the ability
to separately adjust volume control, because in my
experience I've noticed that the audio level drops
after the encoding takes place and you can essentially
over drive it slightly during the encoding process, although
when it comes back out your level
should be the same as where you started.
So that concludes my particular segment of it, and of
course I will be here for Q and A and hopefully if we get,
if I can hop back up here and run around I'll
show you those two files, show you the comparison
of what I was talking about how to
refine the encoding a little bit tighter.
( Applause )
>> Oh I did have them.
Clicker. I am clickerless.
Yeah.
>> Podium.
>> Nate: Hi I am Nate Caplin from
American Electric Power in Columbus, Ohio.
This will take us forward, great.
Okay so we are here to talk a little about our workflow.
American Electric Power's a company of about
20,000 employees spread across 11 states
and we use QuickTime extensively on
our corporate intranet called AEP NOW
which you're are seeing the homepage of right now.
This is the homepage for all AEP employees,
their web browser whenever they launch it up.
We've intergraded video into this site for training,
for safety, for communication from executives
to employees via live web casts etc. As you can see there
is a tab called AEP-TV and when you click that you get
to this page which has our featured videos as well
as a video library by categories here at the right.
All of these are QuickTime videos and
this is all driven by a database back end.
When you finally get to an actual video on the site
you see this large poster frame and a description
and if you click the Watch Video button it will launch up
the QuickTime player and it uses a QuickTime reference movie
that detects the bandwidth using QuickTime 7's automatic
bandwidth detection feature and feeds them a small
or large file depending on the bandwidth at their location.
That's what it looks like to the users, now let's
talk about how we do this in our production workflow.
We are going to talk about distributed coding with Xsan
and QuickTime publishing automation with AppleScript
so I'm going to walk you through building and using
a managed Qmaster cluster which is what we do.
I'm going to step you through each of the applications
that are used in building a cluster and then I am going
to turn it over to John McClintock who is
a streaming media developer on our team
to actually demonstrate to you how we automate our workflow.
These are some of the Apple technologies that we
use and this is our topography of our cluster.
We have a seven node, we have seven workstations, one
of them is John's personally and the others are used
by our video procedures and our video manager.
They're all Final Cut Pro video editing workstations
that have the Qmaster services on them.
There all connected together via both an Ethernet network
and Xsan fibre channel network with a shared SAN volume
that they all use from right within final cut.
So when they finish a file they actually save it onto the
SAN volume and let us know that it is ready to be encoded
and then the process that John will demo for you gets started.
We do have one Xserve that acts as our Qmaster services
cluster controller machine that does little else in the network
in addition
to the other Xserver that we have
that are QuickTime streaming servers
so that the QuickTime streaming server is
obviously are the ones that distribute the files
on demand and live to our users throughout.
Okay so starting off in the Qmaster system preferences pane
under the Setup tab to make a managed cluster you have to go
to each node on your cluster and turn on services only
there at the top part, which I guess do we have a,
on the controller you have to select
services and cluster controller together.
Now there's this option called QuickCluster with services
which is for making kind of add hoc clusters but we found
that at Qmaster's more reliable and more rock
solid if you use a manage cluster instead.
In this pane you can also set up a password so that
the administrator must enter a password for each node
that they'd like to add into their cluster.
On the advance tab, this is a key
thing for using an Xsan cluster.
You have to set this setting here called cluster storage.
You see there it's /Volumes/Video/qmaster.
Video is the name of the Xsan volume and it's key that
every node have the same exact path to the cluster storage
and that path must be somewhere on the
Xsan volume for you to take advantage
of the faster speed that you get with an Xsan.
Because what actually happens is that instead
of Qmaster distributing pieces of the file
or actually the entire source file to every node before it
begins encoding, all the nodes begin encoding immediately
on the same file that is already
on the Xsan shared by all of them.
The status option, to show that on the menu bar, it
puts a little status icon on the top right corner
of the person's screen to let them know when their
machine is being used for a cluster encoding job.
This is important because if your nodes are actually
production machines that people are using Final Cut
or Motion, they may want to opt out so that their
machine is not part of the cluster for a period
of time that they're doing some intense job.
So if they see that, it's a reminder that they can go
up there and open up the Qmaster tab and turn it off.
Qadministrator is an application
that ships with Final Cut Studio.
Once you've turned on Qmaster services on all your nodes
you have to go to Qadministrator and create a new cluster
and drag and drop the machines into it, which would appear
at the bottom part of the window before its been setup.
After that it's a simple matter of giving the
cluster a name and applying your settings.
Then inside of Compressor right here
you have your setting set up just
as you would any other setting
you are doing like Doug was showing.
The two key things you want to look for are this Allow
Job Segmenting which is in each preset in Compressor.
If you check that, what that allows Compressor to do is to
divvy up a single file and send pieces of that source file
to each of the nodes to work on so that, say if you
have a longer duration file, ten minutes or more,
that one file will get encoded a lot faster.
If you don't check that box, the Qmaster
cluster will only speed up the encoding
of multiple versions of the same output or multiple files.
And finally when you submit the job
at the bottom left corner you have
to select the name the cluster instead of this computer.
Okay so now I am going to turn it over
to John McClintock who will demo this.
If we can, oh we don't need to switch
to a demo machine, just hit next.
>> John: All righty.
I'm going to run through an example of our sort of default
workflow when everything is going simple and our editors,
when they've completed a project, drop their files into a
masters folder and we're just dragging that into Compressor
and selecting a file, we like to do this manually
so that we can verify aspect ratio and make sure
that the project will work well with our default settings.
This one's a 16-9 project so I'm just going to drag a
set of 16-9 settings on to the project and I'm going
to check a sort of before and after and you can
see there is a crop being applied and so forth.
Then we will pretty much be able to select the cluster
which in our case is called a Newton
Cluster and we'll submit the job.
The batch monitor pops up and the fact that
the status says Processing is a good thing,
a bad thing is when it says Waiting
for a long period of time.
Hitting the twirlies gives you some status of the segments.
There is as far as I know which
segment belongs to which nodes.
So if you are having a problem with a particular
node, it's not always oblivious which one.
When the batch is complete, it dumps the files
into a destination directory and we do a little bit
of extra processing using an AppleScript afterwards.
So I am going to select the files in the destination
directory, queue the selection of the files and locate them
in my droplet and we just drag the files onto the
application and it is going to actually rehint to the movies
because we need to do that and it mounts the
QuickTime servers if they are not already mounted.
Copies the rehinted movies onto those
servers and one onto an archive directory
and right now its building a reference movie, builds
XML and then makes a reference movie out of that
and then uses Fetch to put it up to production.
So the is the admin of our content management
system and it's pretty much active server pages,
classic active server pages and there's
various fields that have prepopulated.
The critical thing is the file name and we
use filing naming conventions so that they work
on scripts throughout the entire production process and
those just are the, there's a file stem that is the name
which has a library number and so forth and then
there's an extension that tell us the size of the file
and the aspect ratio and all that gets used in various
scripts to populate the user end of things appropriately.
And we're just sort of wondering around the screen.
The users are able to download the video which we find
reduces DVD orders they're able to order DVD's online.
I've set this clip to not visible, it will still run
in the interface but it doesn't show up in searches
and it doesn't show up in category listings.
So I sort of verify the settings in the admin and then we'll
go back to the admin screen and launch the chooser page
that the video shows up on and this
is what the user will end up seeing.
And we'll just click the Watch Video button,
eventually, and verify that we do in fact have video.
You may have noticed a little pop up window
that opened and closed that's our stat tracker
and that gives us some statistics on hits of the
video, so we do have picture and we have sound
so at least we know the video is out there on the servers.
Now when we, looking at the page you see that sort of
default graphic that has nothing to do with the video,
so we want to populate the page with
something that is related to the project,
so using another AppleScript we select an appropriate
frame, something that will sort of suggest the contents
and run another script out of the script menu and
that's going to export a still frame out of the video.
Open it in Photoshop with a preset crop and there's some
human intervention to sort of select where that goes.
And for our category listing we use a small 65 pixel
square thumbnail that is made in the same script.
So those are being saved out to the, and
Fetched up to the production servers.
So we are just going to go back to
the browser and refresh the page
and we should have pretty much ready
for use and publication and so forth.
So the Qmaster cluster has been really vary reliable for
us in general but it defiantly does go down now and then.
There are a couple things that
are like absolutely necessary.
One is that all the nodes have to be
running the same version of QuickTime.
They all have to be using the same
Xsan folder for cluster storage.
The main reason for failure seems
to be if one of the nodes has a hang
for other reasons while it's crunching,
the whole thing will go down.
And what that looks like is in the batch monitor the thing
will be waiting and usually by then you can identify which,
that's there's one node in particular that is
waiting, everything else might be 98 percent done.
But anyway it's easy to fix, you go
to the cluster controller machine
and go into its Qmaster preferences stop services
and it says 10 minutes and you say no waiting zero
and you stop the services, you are
not going to recover them anyway.
And then click options "Start Services" and this is
sort of hidden, it took me a long time to figure
out the option-click method to reset
services and then start the services again.
And then you need to go back into the Qadministrator and
rebuild the cluster,
which is not a big deal I mean you just
rename it and drag the nodes into the thing
and so forth so it's a vary straight forward process.
There's a line on software update here which is
probably confusing, the key to software update is
to not update any of your nodes ahead of the Xsan.
The Xsan metadata controllers and so forth
particularly need to be the last word,
so you need to update everything else to match them.
And you should do those all at once pretty much.
You don't want to have different software
versions on different volumes of the whole thing.
When the script is running its building a
reference movie, this is just a snippet of.
We're selecting different protocols
for different lengths of videos.
If we have, we like to do progressive download,
but it doesn't work well with long files
and being a corporation we are able to produce amazingly
long videos and you don't want them progressively downloaded.
So this little clip here is just saying
that if the clip is less then 10 minutes,
it's going to be progressively downloaded,
we'll have its protocol set to http,
if it's longer then 10 minutes it's
protocol is being set to rtsp.
>> And I might add that the same machines that run our
QuickTime streaming server are also running web services
with the same home directory so one can access the same
file by progressive download or rtsp streaming just
by changing the stem, which is all this does.
>>Nate: Yeah and this is just a snippet
of how the XML text is being written
and here's what the XML actually looks like, and this XML
is saved as a, using the file stem underscore REF.QTRM
and then the QTRM file is opened with Peter Hoddie's
XMLtoRefMovie which is available
at this website and is the only darn way
I can think of to do this thing.
But it works great.
So what it will make is a movie that will be
called something like FILESTEM_REF.MOV and then we,
the script changes the name to a .QTL for maybe vestigial
reasons, we use to be more concerned about hijacking
of videos by particularly WinAmp and
Real Player occasionally glom things.
But nothing gloms a QTL file, not even
Safari knows what to do with it a QTL file.
So we've had pretty good success really
with our Compressor Qmaster experience.
>> Yeah I mean overall it has really sped up our process.
It use to be, we use to use Cleaner until
about maybe a year and half ago and when one
of our video produces would finish editing a
project, they'd tell us it is ready to be encoded.
If they gave us a file that was five or ten minutes in
duration, we'd say well we might be able to have it posted
for you in two or three hours, you know to grind out the couple of
versions that we do because we were doing it on one machine
and now five or ten minute file, we can have
it posted in a matter of ten or fifteen minutes
because our cluster can crunch through it faster
than real time creating multiple versions.
More over we have a lot of these very long movies, 30 minutes
even an hour long, boring legal lectures or something
and these things use to take a day or two to
encode you know on a machine over a weekend
and now we can get them done in
a matter of a couple of hours.
So like Doug said, Compressors really helped out our workflow
and we are really looking forward to using Compressor 3,
which we hope will take even better advantage of our
multiple core workstations to speed it up even more.
So thanks a lot.
And we'll do questions after everyone.
( Applause )
>> Oh next David Singer from Apple.
( Pause in speaking. )
>> David: Hi so now for a quick change of
subject, slight change of subject perhaps.
I'm going to try and deal with the
question that we know a lot of you ask.
How do I make a media file that will play
on my friend's iPod or that new iPhone
or the Apple TV or the Heads up display in the new iCar.
Did we announce the new iCar yet?
So there's two basic ways that we establish
suitability of a file and you could look at a file
to establish whether it's suitable for a particular usage.
You can look at the movie atom in the file.
The movie atom contains all the declarations of
the files, the structure, the codecs it uses,
whether it's self contained, you can
work out how interleaved it is and so on.
And you can check to see whether this file
actually conforms to some specifications
for say a particular device or
whatever so you can scan that.
Alternatively there is a way of signing a file if you look
in our files you will see there is a thing
called file-type atom at the front of them,
it has a list in it of what are called brands,
those brands claim that the file is conformal
with a particular specification, so you can bypass the check
for movie atom by scanning it, by just looking for a brand
that asserts what you were hoping to
find, and that makes life much faster
and obliviously it's something we recommend.
So these specifications, what do they look like?
Well there's two, going to be two basic classes
of these specifications we'll be publishing.
There's class-based specifications and device specific
specifications, now the class-based ones are fairly easy
to understand, they are going to rely on publicly defined
features of the files, so things you can easily check
that rely on standards and documents you
can pull down from Apple and other places.
So for example what codecs do you use, you
know we don't process Cinepak on the iPod
for example that would be a bad codec to choose.
The profiles and the levels of the
codecs for MPEG codecs for example,
do we do main profiles on this
device or is it just baseline?
What level do we go to, which tends
to limit bit rate and screen size?
What file for my features are present?
Is the file self contained?
That generally helps if you are you are
only going to put the file on another device
because if it's self contained you got the media as well.
Is it interleaved?
Is it in time order and so on?
Those are sometimes important devices which
don't have a lot of bandwidth to their storage.
How fast, what's the bit rate of the file?
How big can the file be and so on?
So specifications listing things that you can obviously
work out pretty easily from looking at the file
and indeed the class-based one have
unprotected and protected variants
Clearly Apple devices tend to be able to play files
that are protected with Apple's FairPlay system,
but other devices can't and in case you are looking at
files and you want to go why don't I just slide along right
behind Apple so I can use the same encoding that people are
using for the iPhone but just an unprotected version of it,
then you can look for the tag that says this
is conforming to an unprotected file.
And the class-based ones we're intending,
hoping that they will be supported by one
or more Apple devices over a period of time.
So if you are building a library and you don't want
to be re-encoding your library every time we come
out with a new hip device then maybe you want to be
targeting a class-based specification in the hopes
that we will continue to support
that class in our new devices.
So let's look at some examples of general classes here.
Basic Audio, something that'll play on the iPod Shuffle
and pretty well everything else,
something that's a portable audio-only file.
Low resolution video, something that will play on the first
generation iPod Video the one we're currently shipping
and the way we initially published it, you know, the 320
by 240 size that's very portable, very standards based.
The basic specs for standard video, extended video,
and then probably a class also for desktop video,
something that we don't actually restrict the bit rates and
the file sizes, because our desktop machines, they're brave.
They'll attack anything, even if
they drop frames occasionally.
Now let's contrast that with the
device specific specifications.
This is where you realize that you want to make a file that
works perfectly on just one device, on a specific device.
And often this is because all this
is stretching the limits of a device.
And so this is, the classic example of this is
getting standard def video out of the iPod Video.
As I said when we first launched
the iPod Video, we didn't tell,
we didn't actually try to do standard def
video on it, we were doing 320 by 240 on it.
We realized that we could, in fact,
get standard def video out of it.
But the recipe to get it is a little tricky.
You have to tune the bitstream so that they
just get through the decoding process on that.
So this is the famous low complexity mode that we
publish, but we don't actually tell you what it means,
and we know that, and this is what I'm telling you
today, is that we know that you don't know what it means
and we're going to tell you what it means.
We are working on the documentation for it.
On the UUID tag that you'll find documented in some sense
or at least mentioned quite a lot of blogs and websites
around the internet, that is indeed the embodiment of that
claim, of that low complexity tag, seeing that UUID tag.
That UUID tag is a bitstream tag.
It claims that the bitstream respects the limits
of and will play on a very particular device.
Now, as I say, getting these things to work when you're
stretching the limits of a device is sometimes a little,
ohhhh, so we will publish suggested
ways that you can achieve this.
We'll probably have to simplify.
The real recipe may be as complicated as counting the
number of motion vectors over a half second interval
and multiplying that by 1.3 and subtracting the number
of 4 by 4 macro blocks, adding in the number of 8
by 8 macro blocks, dividing by the phase of the
moon and checking that it doesn't exceed 237.
Well, that's more than we're going
to write in a specification.
( Applause )
>> David: We'll write something that
is actually comprehensible, we hope.
But, you and we might experiment with what in fact works.
You know? If you can prove to yourself, to
your own satisfaction, that my software,
that your software writes files that actually do work on the
iPod Video, even though it doesn't quite follow the recipe
that we publish, then bully for you, that's great.
Go ahead. Now the tag, the UUID tag that I just
mentioned, you have to put that in the movie atom.
But it's making a claim about the nature
of the bitstream and the rest of the file,
which as I said at the beginning there, you'll notice
that we didn't look at the rest of the file when we looked
to see whether a file was suitable for a
device, we're just looking at the movie atom
and the tags and the brand and the file type atom.
So the tag is a UUID atom, specific
content in the sample description,
in the movie atom saying something about the bitstream.
So summary, let's see if we can
go through this very carefully.
The file tags, the brand, they assert and
they confirm conformity, you see that?
You can go man, the person who wrote this file claims
that it conforms to this spec, I don't need to check.
If you don't see the tag you wanted, the
brand you wanted, the absence doesn't deny it.
You're going to have to scan the movie item to check.
Why do we say this?
Well, maybe the software that wrote this
file wasn't aware of that specification.
When the person wrote that software,
maybe that specification wasn't available.
So you want to grandfather files that
will in fact work on a device if you can,
so check to see whether the file will work.
Now, you can have device specific file tags here.
So a file tag will say the entire file has been tuned to
work on this device and you're only allowed to put that in
if the matching bitstream tag is present in the movie atom
saying the bitstreams have been tuned for that device.
So the presence of that bitstream tag
claims playability on a particular device.
But unlike the file level tags,
the absence of that tag means
that you cannot assume playability
and it's not easily checked either.
Because putting it in would mean that you would have
to decode say the video and check the number of 4
by 4 macro blocks, multiplied by 1.3 and minus the
number of 8 by 8 macro blocks and divided by the phase
of the moon does not in fact exceed
237 over a half second interval.
And you're not going to do that every time you want
to put a file on an iPod or an iPhone or something.
That involves scanning the entire file and basically running
a decoder in almost in debugging mode to check that limit.
So if you can't see the bitstream tag, you give up.
It clearly wasn't claiming to be compatible, so
there's a good chance it's not, in fact, compatible.
So, if your software creates files, if you are a
software author and you're writing files out there,
if you make a stream, obviously, that will work on
a specific device, then put in that bitstream tag
because nobody is going to put it in after the fact.
Then look at the movie atom and look at all
the specifications your software is aware of
and put in the signatures of all the specifications
that you are aware of, all the brands that correspond
to those specifications that the
file, in fact, does conform to.
This is trying to catch as many people as you can and
giving them a fast in so that they see the specification
and they go okay, this file works on my
device, I don't have to check any further.
Now please, please, please, please if you don't know
what a tag means, a bitstream tag or a file level tag,
if you don't know what it means, don't put it in the file.
You're making an unsubstantiated, probably false,
misleading, and almost certainly an unhelpful claim.
You're claiming that you've checked that this file
conforms to a specification you haven't even read.
So please, people around the internet
are suggesting on blogs man,
if you just copy this UUID atom into here, it seems to work.
Well it will work some of the time, of course, because
by luck, you will hit some bitstreams that do, in fact,
conform to the limits, but you're telling your
users, or the people that are reading your blogs,
that it'll work all the time, and that's probably not true.
So if you're reading media files, flip it around.
Look for the tags, the brand you support.
If you see that, you're done.
That's a quick check.
You just can do the checks of these four character
codes and if you find one that you support
and the file conforms to that, you're in.
We're done.
Now, if none of them are present,
then do the second level check.
Scan the movie atom, look for what your device requires.
Now, for Apple, that means that we may be looking
for bitstream tags in the sample description
if the file doesn't meet suitable class space limits.
Obviously if it's an iPod Video and you've
put in simple video, the 320 by 240,
we don't need to check for the bitstream tag because
it's already a class that the iPod Video supports.
So, I'm sure you're going to want more information.
We are going to publish details of the brands, the UUID
tags, the low complexity modes, and how to make them.
And we're aware of the lack of that documentation and
we realize that you can see that we're doing something
and we're not telling you what it is and that some of
you are trying to guess and trying to work around that.
That's not a position that we like to be in.
We will document this.
We are working on it and we're
apologetic that we haven't done it so far.
And Ed Agabeg is your main contact, of course.
If you have questions after the event,
then he will find the right people
and harass them to get the documentation that you need.
Then, coming up this week, if you're entered
in coding, you've got to go and see how
to create integrated workforce solutions with Final
Cut Pro, because that's the greatest tool out there
and that's the most fun you're going to have this week.
Next, after that, however, if you want to have fun
mastering QuickTime Digital Video and creating effective,
sophisticated podcasts, don't create boring podcasts.
Create effective, sophisticated podcasts.
Come to Presidio on Friday.
Likewise there are labs here that we can help you with.
Digital video preprocessing, media
encoding and media delivery, and indeed,
tomorrow you could hit the QuickTime lab, the media
and graphics lab and find out about standards,
where I'll be there and you can come
and ask me about all the hard questions
about international standards for multimedia.